Welcome to the last video for this week.
There are many great,
deep learning programming frameworks.
One of them is TensorFlow.
I'm excited to help you start
to learn to use TensorFlow.
What I want to do in this video
is show you the basic structure
of a TensorFlow program, and then leave
you to practice, learn more details, and
practice them yourself in
this week's problem exercise.
This week's problem exercise
will take some time to do so
please be sure to leave
some extra time to do it.
As a motivating problem,
let's say that you have some cost
function J that you want to minimize.
And for this example,
I'm going to use this highly simple
cost function J(w) = w squared- 10w + 25.
So that's the cost function.
You might notice that this function
is actually (w- 5) squared.
If you expand out this quadratic,
you get the expression above, and so
the value of w that
minimizes this is w = 5.
But let's say we didn't know that,
and you just have this function.
Let's see how you can implement something
in TensorFlow to minimize this.
Because a very similar structure of
program can be used to train neural
networks where you can have some
complicated cost function J(w,
b) depending on all the parameters
of your neural network.
And the, similarly,
you'll be able to use TensorFlow so
automatically try to find values of w and
b that minimize this cost function.
But let's start with the simpler
example on the left.
So, I'm running Python in my Jupyter
notebook and to start up TensorFlow,
you import numpy as np and it's idiomatic
to use import tensorflow as tf.
Next, let me define the parameter w.
So in TensorFlow, you're going to use
tf.Variable to define a parameter.
Dtype=tf.float32.
And then let's define the cost function.
So remember the cost function
was w squared- 10w + 25.
So let me use tf.add.
So I'm going to have w
squared + tf.multiply.
So the second term was -10.w.
And then I'm going to add that 25.
So let me put another tf.add over there.
So that defines the cost J that we had.
And then, I'm going to write train =
tf.train.GradientDescentOptimizer.
Let's use a learning rate of 0.01 and
the goal is to minimize the cost.
And finally, the following few
lines are quite idiomatic.
Init = tf.global_variables_initializer and
then session = tf.Sessions.
So it starts a TensorFlow session.
Session.run init to
initialize global variables.
And then, for TensorFlow's evaluative
variable, we're going to use sess.run w.
We haven't done anything yet.
So with this line above, initialize
w to zero and define a cost function.
We define train to be our
learning algorithm which uses
a GradientDescentOptimizer to
minimize the cost function.
But we haven't actually run
the learning algorithm yet, so
session.run, we evaluate w, and
let me print(session.run(w).
So if we run that,
it evaluates w to be equal to 0
because we haven't run anything yet.
Now, let's do session.run train.
So what this will do is run
one step of GradientDescent.
And then let's evaluate
the value of w after one
step of GradientDescent and print that.
So we do that of the one set of
GradientDescent, w is now 0.1.
Let's now run 1000 iterations of
GradientDescent so .run(train).
And lets then print(session.run w).
So this would run a 1,000
iterations of GradientDescent,
and at the end w ends up being 4.9999.
Remember, we said that we're
minimizing w- 5 squared so
the absolute value of w is 5 and
it got very close to this.
So hope this gives you a sense of the
broad structure of a TensorFlow program.
And as you do the following exercise and
play with more TensorFlow course yourself,
some of these functions that I'm
using here will become more familiar.
Some things to notice about this,
w is the parameter which I optimize so
we're going to declare that as a variable.
And notice that all we had to do was
define a cost function using these add and
multiply and so on functions.
And TensorFlow knows automatically how to
take derivatives with respect to the add
and multiply as was other functions.
Which is why you only had to
implement basically four prop and
it can figure out how to do the back
problem or the grading computation.
Because that's already
built in to the add and
multiply as well as
the squaring functions.
By the way,
in cases notation seems really ugly,
TensorFlow actually has
overloaded the computation for
the usual plus, minus, and so on.
So you could also just write this
nicer format for the cost and
comment that out and rerun this and
get the same result.
So once w is declared to be a TensorFlow
variable, the squaring, multiplication,
adding, and
subtraction operations are overloaded.
So you don't need to use this
uglier syntax that I had above.
Now, there's just one more feature of
TensorFlow that I want to show you,
which is this example
minimize a fix function of w.
One of the function you want to minimize
is the function of your training set.
So whether you have some training data,
x and
when you're training a neural network
the training data x can change.
So how do you get training data
into a TensorFlow program?
So I'm going to define t and
x which is think of this as train
a relevant training data or
really the training data with both x and
y, but we only have x in this example.
So just going to define
x with placeholder and
it's going to be a type float32 and
let's make this a [3,1] array.
And what I'm going to do is whereas
the cost here have fixed coefficients in
front of the three terms in this quadratic
was 1 times w squared- 10*w + 25.
We could turn these numbers 1- 10 and
25 into data.
So what I'm going to
do is replace the cost
with cost = x[0][0]*w squared
+ x[1][0]*w + x[2][0].
Well, times 1.
So now x becomes sort of
like data that controls
the coefficients of this
quadratic function.
And this placeholder function
tells TensorFlow that
x is something that you
provide the values for later.
So let's define another array,
coefficient = np.array,
[1.], [-10.] and yes,
the loss value was [25.].
So that's going to be the data
that we're going to plug into x.
So finally we need a way to get this array
coefficients into the variable x and
the syntax to do that is just
doing the training step.
That the values for
will need to be provided for x,
I'm going to set here,
feed_dict = x:coefficients,
And I'm going to change this, I'm going to
copy and paste put that there as well.
All right, hopefully,
I didn't have any syntax errors.
Let's try re-running this and we get
the same results hopefully as before.
And now, if you want to change the
coefficients of this quadratic function,
let's say you take this [-10.] and
change it to 20, [-20].
And let's change this to 100.
So this is now a function x- 10 squared.
And if I re-run this, hopefully,
I find that the value that
minimizes x- 10 squared is w = 10.
Let's see, cool, great and
we get w very close to 10 after running
1,000 integrations of GradientDescent.
So what you see more of when you do that
from exercise is that a placeholder in
TensorFlow is a variable
whose value you assign later.
And this is a convenient way to get your
training data into the cost function.
And the way you get your data into
the cost function is with this syntax
when you're running
a training iteration to
use the feed_dict to set x to be
equal to the coefficients here.
And if you are doing mini batch
GradientDescent where on each iteration,
you need to plug in a different mini
batch, then on different iterations you
use the feed_dict to feed in different
subsets of your training sets.
Different mini batches into where your
cost function is expecting to see data.
So hopefully this gives you
a sense of what TensorFlow can do.
And the thing that makes this so
powerful is all you need to do is specify
how to compute the cost function.
And then, it takes derivatives and
it can apply a gradient optimizer or
an add-on optimizer or
some other optimizer with just pretty
much one or two lines of codes.
So here's the code again.
I've cleaned this up just a little bit.
And in case some of these functions or
variables seem a little bit mysterious to
use, they will become more familiar after
you've practiced with it a couple times by
working through their problem exercise.
Just one last thing I want to mention.
These three lines of code are quite
idiomatic in TensorFlow, and
what some programmers will do
is use this alternative format.
Which basically does the same thing.
Set session to tf.Session()
to start the session,
and then use the session to run init, and
then use the session to evaluate,
say, w and then print the result.
But this with construction is used in
a number of TensorFlow programs as well.
It more or less means the same
thing as the thing on the left.
But the with command in Python is
a little bit better at cleaning up in
cases an error in exception
while executing this inner loop.
So you see this is
the following exercise as well.
So what is this code really doing?
Let's focus on this equation.
The heart of a TensorFlow program is
something to compute at cost, and then
TensorFlow automatically figures out the
derivatives in how to minimize that costs.
So what this equation or
what this line of code is doing
is allowing TensorFlow to
construct a computation draft.
And a computation draft does
the following, it takes x[0][0],
it takes w and
then it goes w gets squared.
And then x[0][0] gets
multiplied with w squared,
so you have x[0][0]*w squared,
and so on, right?
And eventually, you know,
this gets built up to compute this xw,
x[0][0]*w squared + x[1][0]*w + and so on.
And so eventually,
you get the cost function.
And so the last term to be
added would be x [2][0] where
it gets added to be the cost.
I won't write other format for the cost.
And the nice thing about TensorFlow is
that by implementing basically four
prop applications through this
computation draft, the computed cost,
TensorFlow already has that built in.
All the necessary backward functions.
So remember how training a deep neural
network has a set of forward functions
instead of backward functions.
Programming frameworks like Tensor Flow
have already built-in the necessary
backward functions.
Which is why by using the built-in
functions to compute the forward function,
it can automatically do the backward
functions as well to implement back
propagation through even very complicated
functions and compute derivatives for you.
So that's why you don't need to
explicitly implement back prop.
This is one of the things that
makes the programming frameworks
help you become really efficient.
If you look at the TensorFlow
documentation,
I just want to point out that
the TensorFlow documentation
uses a slightly different notation than
I did for drawing the computation draft.
So it uses x[0][0] w.
And then, rather than writing the value,
like w squared,
the TensorFlow documentation tends
to just write the operation.
So this would be a, square operation,
and then these two get combined in
the multiplication operation and so on.
And then, a final note,
I guess that would be
an addition operation where you add
x to 0 to find the final value.
So for the purposes of this class,
I thought that this notation for
the computation draft would be easier for
you to understand.
But if you look at
the TensorFlow documentation,
if you look at the computation
drafts in the documentation,
you see this alternative convention
where the notes are labeled
with the operations rather
than with the value.
But both of these representations
represent basically
the same computation draft.
And there are a lot of things that you can
with just one line of code in programming
frameworks.
For example, if you don't want
to use GradientDescent, but
instead you want to use the add-on
Optimizer by changing this line of code,
you can very quickly swap it,
swap in a better optimization algorithm.
So all the modern deep learning
programming framework support
things like this and
makes it really easy for you to code
up even pretty complex neural networks.
So I hope this is helpful for
giving you a sense of the typical
structure of a TensorFlow program.
To recap the material from this week,
you saw how to systematically organize
the hyper parameter search process.
We also talked about
batch normalization and
how you can use that to speed up
training of your neural networks.
And finally, we talked about programming
frameworks of deep learning.
There are many great
programming frameworks.
And we had this last video
focusing on TensorFlow.
With that, I hope you enjoyed this
week's programming exercise and
that helps you gain even more
familiarity with these ideas.